I will first start with an introduction.
What is Kubernetes? Kubernetes is an open source orchestration system for Docker containers.
It lets use schedule containers on a cluster of machines.
You can run multiple containers on one machine and those machines then make up the cluster.
You can run a long running services like web applications on your Kubernetes cluster. Kubernetes will manage
the state of these containers.
You can start a container on a specific node and Kubernetes will restart the container when it gets
killed.
It can also move containers from one node to another node.
For instance if you're going to do maintenance on one node Kubernetes can take all the containers from
one node and move them to the other nodes. Instead of just running a few Docker containers on one host manually
because that's what you would do if you wouldn't have Kubernetes. Kubernetes is a platform that will
manage the containers for you.
Kubernetes clusters can start with one node and can go up to thousands of nodes.
Some other popular Docker orchestrators are DockerSwarm which comes with Docker by default but isn't
as extensive as Kubernetes and Mesos which also support the containers
But it was built to run any type of workload Docker is just one of them.
This course will be about Kubernetes which is in the same category as those two.
You can run Kubernetes anywhere, on-premise in your own data center, public on the Google Cloud, on AWS,
maybe in other clouds or in a hybrid where you can run it public and private. Some of your workloads you
might want to keep on premise,
so you might run them privately and other workloads you might run them on the public cloud so you can
have the same system, the same abstraction on the public cloud as on private which is very powerful.
It is highly modular,
so you can make changes if necessary.
It is open source.
The product is on github you can easily make changes and they encourage everyone who wants to join the community
you can make changes, which makes it a great community and is also backed by Google.
So when they did the original release it was actually written by Google employees and they are still
supporting it.
So it's backed by Google and it incorporates all the good stuff that Google already does
for decades. Google already runs containerized applications for more than 10 years using their own system.
It's called Borg now they incorporated those ideas in Kubernetes
that they then released to the community.